Department of Media Studies and Journalism
University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh
Midterm Examination | Fall semester, 2023
MSJ 11214: Convergence Communication 1 (Sec 1)


Full Mark: 25
Deadline: Dec 16, 2023


Each student must individually fill up the following form to write the report on her/his group/individual project for the final term examination.
Reporter’s  ID: 223012075
Reporter’s name: Faria Akter 
Question
Answer
Point
Title of your work: 
Howling Of The Nature 
01
Group details (if any)
 
Group name:
Trashoff Show
01
Group member’s list. 
(Write your group members’ names with their IDs.)
Member's ID
Member's name
01

223012075
Faria Akter 


223012037
Md.Tariquzzaman Sikder


223012054
Ucchas Ahmed Bappy 



 



 



 



 



 

Theme
 
CI theme:
(Write about the semester theme ‘echo system restoration’ in your language.)
(50-150 words)
This semester our CI theme was eco system restoration.Eco System Restoration means protecting the remaining intact ecosystems and helping in the restoration of those that have been wrecked or harmed.The main purpose of eco system restoration is restoration should support and help the nature from destroy.Restoration can happen in many ways for example if we plant every or use less harmful products so that our nature can recover and produce more Green House Gas. We, should be more active in eco system restoration other wise there'll be an alarming reaction from the nature.
01
Group/Individual theme:
(What was your theme? Why did you take this theme?)
(150-250 words)





Our them was to represent the consequences of human actions on nature. There was a Jungle, jungle was symbolic as a powerful thing on our environment,on the other hand there was a model who was symbol the humanity, humanity was represent how they are destroying the nature for their own good. We mainly want to represent that we destroy the nature but we forget that we are nothing without nature . Nature is an important part of our modern history life and humanity.But we kept destroy our nature but end of the day we realize our mistake and mourn about our mistake. Nevertheless,when we realize, it's too late. That's why we want to tell people be wise before you destroy the nature. We should take our humanity improve day by day with the help of nature not by destroying them.we also choose this topic to encourage people that it's not too late,to be aware and improve the sense of responsibility.
02

Artwork
Layout & Plan:
(Attach the image of your layout)
(Why and what kind of fashion did you want to do?)
(150-250 words)
I choose to represent the jungle. I choose jungle because jungle was destroyed more often and no one was cared until the global warming rise. That's why I want to represent the jungle. To create the jungle look I have to use a lot of green leaf. To create the green leaf I used some unused green clothes. I made leaf with this clothes and I also made some butterflies also with paper. After made this thing I use color to make the dress more pretty and eye catchy. I wore a wing also, the wing was a used wing ,so I reused the wing,when I found the wing,it was not wearable.Then,I use my painting skill and also color the wings. For,the shoes,it was my broken shoes , I bought the shoes when I was in 9/10 ,it was not in a wearable situation.But,I glued the shoes add my paper butterflies and then wear it on the runway!
02
Production: 
(Please write about the production process of your work from the beginning including materials you used, the place you worked at, any obstacles you faced, any improvisation you did, and the result came out at the end.)
(Please attach some images of your production process.)
 (300-400 words)
We did our work in my place (Faria Akter)’s place. We have a lot of fun. We was  quiet Worried about finishing our dress because we was only 3members in our team. But , when we started to do our jobs our tension started to grow up!!!There was a lot of work! We have to make 4dresses and 2 pair of shoes.But somehow we managed to do this on time! We use used clothes,glue gun,broken shoes,color,paper etc.so, There was an interesting event, when we was working together. I got mad very fast,so one day I was trying to explain my teammates that what I want, they was unable to understand then I became made , wasn't talking to them at all.Then my mom came and offered us “Khichuri”. She said,if we have some food then we'll be able to work peacefully again. And it's true it worked like magic,I was again cool tempear after the meal. It was one of the most funny and memorable event for me.i wish we could go back to the time and enjoy more and more.
04
Exhibition
 
Exhibition:
(Where was the show, how was that platform, who were the spectators, was any other platform better for the show, and why?)
(150 -250 words)
(Please attach some images/screenshots of your final work and show)
The show was in ULAB ‘s permanent campus. So,our platform was the red building. The platform was good but it can be more beautiful if there was a little more decorations and also there was a very less carpet.If there was more carpets,in my opinion it may be very helpful for the models (as an model).and also the guest was seat in the sunlight if there was more facilities for audiences it'll be great I guess . Nevertheless,if we can do this show in our play ground I guess it'll be more pretty and eye-catching. Like,if we build a platform in the field and carpets in the whole walkway.Then it'll be very beautiful to see a runway where models are representing the nature values in the middle of the nature. Also,we can make an arrangement for the audience inside the filed for the guests,and also some food for them outside the ground.
02
 
Feedback
 
(Please interview 5 people and ask the same 5 questions to each person to fill up the table below.)

(Please edit question number 5 with your message in it, before you send the questions to your interviewee.)
 
 
04
Question
Answer
 
Interviewee:1
1. Please tell me your name and profession (in detail). 
 
Name:Anika Nawar,

Profession (in detail): LLB student from University of Asia Pacific. She's now in 2nd year.
2. Please tell me what message you get after seeing my artwork, or is it very confusing and very hard to understand?  
 
 No,it was not very confusing or hard to understand that you are representing the nature. I really love your artwork, after seeing your dress I thought you was representing the nature or kind of something like this.!
3. If you get any message, which clues have helped you to understand the message?
 Yes,I get the message that we should protect our nature. I got this clue after looking at your dress because you use a lot of green leaf,I also love the idea.
4. Does this artwork look common or does it look extraordinary to you?  If it looks unique or creative to you, what kind of uniqueness do you find in this work? 
Obviously ,it was very creative and extra ordinary. In my opinion, you doesn't make something which is not wearable!!  You make some that's wearable and also represent our nature and also helps to use the trash, Brilliant!
5. I wanted to tell you (write your message here). Have you found this message in this artwork? If my message could be more visible in it, please suggest it to me. 
 
 Our message was to tell people that we shouldn't destroy our nature for humanity.
So , have you found this message? Yes,I kinda found this message from your act and dress!
 
Interviewee:2
1. Please tell me your name and profession.
 
Name: Suriya Akter Ria
Profession (in detail): Media studies and Journalism student from University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh now in 5th semester.
2. Please tell me what message you get after seeing my artwork, or is it very confusing and very hard to understand?  
 2. To be honest your art work was mesmerising.  No, its not so difficult to understand your artwork. Creating art with a focus on trash can be a powerful commentary, you proved that. 

3. If you get any message, which clues have helped you to understand the message? 

3. The theme of a "trashon show" with a focus on a tree or jungle is a brilliant and innovative concept. This theme helped  viewers to understand the impact of human activity on ecosystem.
4. Does this artwork look common or does it look extraordinary to you?  If it looks unique or c
  
 
reative to you, what kind of uniqueness do you find in this work? 

4.The artwork with a theme of trees and jungle is exceptionally creative and unique. The incorporation of trees and butterflies into the dresses adds a distinctive touch, making the overall concept stand out with artistic ingenuity.

5. I wanted to tell you (write your message here). Have you found this message in this artwork? If my message could be more visible in it, please suggest it to me. 
 

5. Your artwork successfully delivered the message with its tree and jungle theme, especially through the creative addition of trees and butterflies on the dresses. To make the message even more noticeable, you might highlight essential elements or use symbols that closely align with your intended meaning.
 
Interviewee:3
1. Please tell me your name and profession.
 
Name: Nayem Arman
Profession (in detail): CSE student in Prime university,also an entrepreneur.
2. Please tell me what message you get after seeing my artwork, or is it very confusing and very hard to understand?  
 Your idea was really good and your artwork also!
3. If you get any message, which clues have helped you to understand the message? 
 I guess you was trying to save the nature? Your dress was very good and very easy for understand I love it.
4. Does this artwork look common or does it look extraordinary to you?  If it looks unique or creative to you, what kind of uniqueness do you find in this work? 
 Yes,every artwork is different and yeah I got your message.
5. I wanted to tell you (write your message here). Have you found this message in this artwork? If my message could be more visible in it, please suggest it to me. 
 
 Yes,I got your idea of protecting the nature from your act and dress also.
 
Interviewee:4
1. Please tell me your name and profession.
 
Name: Sabbir
Profession (in detail): Biochemistry student in North south university.
2. Please tell me what message you get after seeing my artwork, or is it very confusing and very hard to understand?  
 No, your art work was an easy guess to understand.proud of you bro!!!
3. If you get any message, which clues have helped you to understand the message? 
 I got the idea of your dress from your used green hand made flowers.
4. Does this artwork look common or does it look extraordinary to you?  If it looks unique or creative to you, what kind of uniqueness do you find in this work? 
Very creative and extraordinary.its creative because it's not only for the show,it's also outside wearable! 
5. I wanted to tell you (write your message here). Have you found this message in this artwork? If my message could be more visible in it, please suggest it to me. 
 
 Yes,I got the mess from your act and dress and voice from both.
 
Interviewee:5
1. Please tell me your name and profession.
Name: Rabbi


Profession (in detail): a model also an entrepreneur,study in BUFT .
2. Please tell me what message you get after seeing my artwork, or is it very confusing and very hard to understand?  
 Yes,I love your dress ,it was an easy guess.
3. If you get any message, which clues have helped you to understand the message? 
 By looking at your dress anyone can understand what you are going to say ,it was a very hard task but I love it you did it so well.!!
4. Does this artwork look common or does it look extraordinary to you?  If it looks unique or creative to you, what kind of uniqueness do you find in this work? 
 Yes,it was very extra ordinary and creative .
5. I wanted to tell you (write your message here). Have you found this message in this artwork? If my message could be more visible in it, please suggest it to me. 
 
 Got your message it was also visible.
 
Realization
07
 (Have you got all the feedback from the audience as you expected? Did the viewers get your message? Please explain the reasons why or why they did not get your message. What have you realized about your succession at the end? How should you do the fashion if you want to do it again? What were the strengths of your work? Why? What were your faults? How can you avoid your faults next time? What is your thought about this project?)
(400-500 words)
I'm actually quite happy because all the people who gave me very good review.Everyone was talking about my dress, they love my dress a lot. I also loved I wanted to show people you can make something wearable and represent also .I want to show people that you don't need to be chunki if you are going to represent something,you can make a dress and represent it without confused the people. I guess I successed in this sector.The most interesting thing is everyone understand my message by looking at my dress and my ramp walk. I'm very grateful to my God because he gave me the ability to do this job properly. I was also very happy with my work.But I'm only sad for one thing noone praise or talk about my shoes; I really put a lot of efforts to make the shoes wearable.People may not be notice them!! But I'm very happy with the reviews.

If we again do the Trashion Show,I guess our instructors should start their work on time, because they delay a lot! And we could switch The place with the field it may be a good one. 

That's all I have to say, Thank You for giving me opportunity to express myself.
Total
25





** Report Submission deadline: Dec 16, 2023


 
 

