The Dual Lives Of Bangladeshi Young Footballer

Photo Credit – Nayem Hossain

The person whose face appears in the photo is currently known as “Apu Roy.”In the Pabna district, Apu Roy lives. He wasn’t always like that, however. Due to the lapse of time, the demands of modern society, or a lack of a proper analysis, he has become a “barber”.

But in 2018, Apu Roy played on the Bangabandhu Gold Cup Football champions. The honor was given to him by the prime minister, Sheikh Hasina. 

When asked about his present situation, he stated that he had to give up his dream of playing football and join other occupations in order to be alive in society due to a lack of finances and opportunities.


Photo credit - Mahmud Al Faisal

Bappy, a football player who is 22 years old, is also a student at a university.He has played football for many years.

His first success in a college competition, helps to earn his college a trophy. He says that he is satisfied with the facilities he gets from football, and he believes that if someone came to Bangladesh to make money from football, he would have nothing to do in Bangladesh other than giving up football. He is pleased with the benefits and respect he earned by football in his academic life as well as on the playground. 




Photo credit – Mahmud Al Faisal

Shaon, however, had a different response. He played under-16 football for Bangladesh.In 2007, he entered the Brothers Union Club. The other 10 players’ gameplay is not like Shaion’s. Shelim Hossain, his father, was still a former player and coach for the Bangladesh national football team. He watched his father play football as a child.
“Cricket is bigger in Bangladesh than football.
He added, “Lower middle class those come mainly for money, due to which they occasionally go into debt. Addressing Apu Roy, he said, “If he goes there for money, it is not possible. The Bangabandhu Gold Cup Football Tournament is a local football tournament.

Sayan, an experienced athlete, believes that there have to be more opportunities in our nation and newcomers should be given more .

Will we ever be able to provide football a new dimension by eliminating this difference or not paying for talent? Three players that represent many football players.
Submitted by Faria Akter (223012075)
